So in the last lecture we created these two simple shortcodes here.
Let's see what else shortcodes can do.
So let's go to the backend again. And what we created here is called a self-closing.
shortcodes because closed we should go this way.
Other kinds of shortcodes are called enclosing shortcodes. And encluding shortcodes are shortcodes which can have content
inside of them. Solet's remove this"/" now.
And let's close this shortcode in a different way.
So let's copy its name and close it this way.
And now you can have some content inside of here.
So let's say we would like to have the text for the button inside the tags instead of having it as an attribute,
like so.
And now we'll have the default button because you are using an attribute here.
So let's now instead of using this text attribute use what's inside the shortcode text.
So in our shortcode function we receive a second argument which is the $content. And always default this content to "null"
also the attributes let's default them to an empty array.
So in case there is no content we can know that this is a self-closing shortcode. If we have content
then there is some content inside the shortcode tags. And what we'll have to do now is instead of the text,
we'll use the $content.
And as you can see we have our text back.
So of course for a button this might not make sense really the attribute was just fine but I just want
to illustrate the enclosing shortcodes.
One more thing.
Let's say we want to add an icon in the button text.
So let's say we'll have this shortcode inside our button shortcode.
So we'll have an icon and then the text.
Let's update and as you can see we have the shortcode as text here.
So when WordPress parses your  shortcodes it will parse only one level of shortcodes. If you have nested
shortcodes like in this case you have to handle this when you define your shortcodes.
So when we define our button shortcode and when we output the content here, let' remove esc_html()
because we'll have an I tag.
You can write a custom function to allow only I tags and so on.
We've done that before.
And instead of just outputting the content let's call a function before it called do_shortcode(). And do_shorcode() will
take a string which is our content and it will find any shortcode in it
And as the function says it will do it. It will output the HTML for this shortcode. So let's see now.
And now we'll have our button with the icon and the text. Great so,
whenever you create a shortcode that will have some content in it and you would like to allow adding
other shortcodes inside your shortcode, you should always call do_shortcode() before outputting the content
inside the shotcode tags.
One more thing.
Shortcode functions also receive a third argument called "tag".
And let's default it to an empty string. And the "tag" is just a shortcode name which we defined here.
So this $tag will contain "_themename_button" and this is optional but you can take this $tag
and pass it
as a third argument for the shortcode_atts() function. And by doing so you will allow filtering
your shortcode attributes.
So for any shortcode that has the "tag" passed in the shortcode_atts() function
we can now add filter. And this filter will be called "shortcode_atts_"
and then our shortcode name which in our case "_themename_button". And then we give
it a function.
So let's just call it anything we were just testing this filter. And let's define this function. And let's
return a "color"
"blue" for example.
And let's see now. Now as you can see our shortcode color is blue although the default value for that is red.
Right?
But now we are able to filter our shortcode attributes.
So I'm not sure what could be a use case for this but I just thought I would let you know that this
exists.
This filter also receives four arguments "out" and "pairs" and" attributes" and "shortcode".
"pairs" will be the default attributes for the shortcode and "attributes" will be the attributes that the user
passed the shortcode. And "shortcode" will be the shortcode name and "out" will be the output
of the pairs and the attributes.
It's if we give pairs and attributes to the shortcode_atts() function.
So you can somehow use these variables here and return a new array to filter your shotcodes attributes.
Right?
So let's remove this.
One final note for this lecture.
You cannot nest two shortcodes with the same name together.
So for example we cannot add "_themename_button" inside the "_themename_button", like so.
WordPress will not understand this.
And things might get a little messed up.
So one use case for this.
If you're creating rows and columns for example a grid system and you'd like to nest rows inside
of each other.
Unfortunately using shortcodes you cannot add shortcodes with the same name inside of each other.
So I think you now know most of the important things about shortcodes. Let's in the next lecture
move the shortcodes that we defined here in a plugin.
And that's because like we did for the custom fields, we would like shortcodes to be available even if the user
decided to change our theme,
right?
And this is actually a requirement by WordPress and Theme Forest.
You cannot define shortcodes inside your theme.
You should define them in a plugin. Ao let's do that in the next lecture.